Why is functional programming so great.
We just learned a bunch of terms.
Everything kind of looks like math.
But why are people so excited about this in the next video.
We're gonna go over the Amazon exercise and hopefully what we've learned up until now will all come
together but the idea with functional programming is this idea of separation of data and functions or
data and the effects that happen on that data.
Kind of like this pipe.
We have a piece of data that we put through this pipe and whatever happens through the pipe these transformation
something gets output if you try to perform effects and logic at the same time.
The problem is that you may create hidden side effects which cause a lot of bugs.
If multiple things in your program handle some piece of data at the same time well that gets really
complicated and it could cause many problems so the idea in functional programming of keeping functions
small and pure and composed while doing one thing at a time and doing it well this idea of immutability
the idea that functions that take inputs and return outputs so that it can be used with other functions
it allows us to have a predictable program where it minimizes bugs because everything is so simple and
as long as we are able to combine these small little functions together we're able to create really
complex programs.
These small little pieces that eventually build something like a pyramid something great.
It doesn't mean that functional programming is the answer to everything.
Yes because of its nature it works really well with distributed systems that have different little machines
all over the world working with each other or parallelism where multiple things have to happen in parallel
but because these functions are pure it doesn't cause strange bugs.
But at the same time it all depends on the problem you have.
There are times when object oriented programming might be better.
You're building a fairy tale game and you have clear objects characters in the game that have some sort
of state and that can interact with that state and others can interact with them as well or you have
something like an Amazon shopping cart where there's a clear data that needs to get processed.
So using everything that we've learned up until now let's go back to the exercise that I showed you
at the very beginning of this section and see if we can apply some of these principles to our answer
ready.
Let's get started.